# KiBot CI/CD template repository

This repository provides a ready-to-go CI/CD workflow for KiCad with GitHub actions. To use this repo hit the _Use this template_ button then follow the steps from GitHub.

**The repository name must exactly match the name of the KiCad project.
Do not use spaces in either the repository or the project name.**

For everything to work out of the box you should avoid spaces in both the GitHub repository name and the KiCad project name. Use underscores or hyphens instead, for example `TBM930_De-Ice_-_Panel` or `Collins-FMS-3000`.

## Features of this repository template

1. Integration with GitHub releases to automatically produce documentation and
   fabrication files on every GitHub release, including automatic date and version
   stamping of schematics and PCBs.
2. KiBot preflighting on every pull request (ERC/DRC checks disabled by default).
3. VSCode dev container and default build task for easy local testing of KiBot scripts.

## Documentation generated

The following documents are generated on every release build:

- Interactive BOM - HTML
- Schematic - PDF
- PCB front copper and explanatory drawings layers - PDF
- PCB back copper and explanatory drawings layers - PDF
- 3D render - STEP
- PCB front - JPEG
- PCB back - JPEG

These documents can also be generated by manually running the `KiBot - Generate documentation` action on GitHub.

## Fabrication files generated

The following fabrication files are generated on every release build:

- JLCPCB gerbers and drill files, with BOM and placement files for SMT service
- PCBWay gerbers and drill files

The fabrication files can also be generated by manually running the `KiBot - Release` action on GitHub.

## How this works

A complete CodeTour is included in this repository that walks through all the components
of how KiBot scripts and GitHub actions work. [Use github.dev to view the CodeTour](https://github.dev/neilenns/KiBot-CICD-Template)!

## Running builds locally

This repository template includes the files necessary to run in a VSCode dev container,
which dramatically reduces the effort required to use KiBot on Windows machines.

Never used VSCode remote containers before on Windows? Here's how to get set up:

1. From a PowerShell install WSL2 with this command: `wsl --install`
2. Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download) and Docker Desktop(https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
3. Install the [Remote Containers](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers) extension for VSCode

When installing Docker Desktop you may be told you have to enable virtualization in your computer's BIOS. Setting that up
is outside the scope of this readme but isn't hard. Just do a web search for your motherboard for how to enter the BIOS
and what the exact name of the setting is, then turn it on.
